README.md, before:

# Collecting Data about character pick variety in Fighting game tournaments

This is an analysis of the variety of characters that get picked in tournaments for given fighting games, and aims to compare games based on this variety.

For now, I will only be focusing on the variety of characters who place **TOP 8** at any given event. I am after a detailed look at character diversity across multiple big FGC (fighting game community) titles. I am also aiming to get a better understanding on how to compare
games like Street Fighter 6 and Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom 3. In Street Fighter, each player can only pick 1 character per match. In UMvC3, each player will be picking a team of 3 characters each match. This begs questions like:
- What games offer the most variety character-wise in the FGC?
- Is character variety an inherently good thing in fighting games?
- Is a VS. game (team games ala UMvC3) inherently more diverse than a game like Street Fighter?
- Is it more impactful to have more total characters represented, or a larger percentage of the overall cast be respresented?
- How do you compare games with different sized rosters, or with different amounts of characters being picked in a given match?
- If certain characters are picked more often in a top 8, even in a team game where each player is picking multiple characters at a time, what kind of impact does that have on a game's community?
- Are the characters getting picked the most considered powerful, or even the best character in their respective game?

## Tech stack

There are 2 different scraping scripts that are apart of this project, both built using [Puppeteer](https://www.npmjs.com/package/puppeteer). 
The first is a scraper I built to collect all Top 8 or relevant tournament video URLs from [Tampa Never Sleeps](https://www.youtube.com/@TampaNeverSleeps).
Since they are so kind to provide pretty much all of the characters and player matchups in the descriptions of all of their tournament videos,
I can then scrape character usage data from each individual Top 8 video description for each of my supported games from the URL list. 
Currently there is support for UMvC3, SF6, and GG Strive. SSBU, SSBM are in the works (more games TBD, DBFZ?).

Unfortunately, because I am relying on the descriptions of tournament VODs, I am only getting data from one Youtube channel. There are also some 
inconsistencies; misspellings, extra matches getting included in a Top 8 VOD that aren't actual Top 8 matches, etc... 
But I think the project still captures the bigger picture of diversity in character selection at the top level of fighting games. 

TODO: 
- refine character naming distinctions ("Goku" vs "Goku Black" etc.) as well as ability to scrape other non-Top 8 videos
- create data visualization front end (t3 stack? next? react? D3?)
- look at what it would take to scrape data from [start.gg](https://start.gg), other data sourcing options

Commit message:

Parsing descriptions for non-tem games mostly working (some edge-cases to check), updated READ.ME

README.md, after:

# Collecting Data about players and their character picks in Fighting game tournaments

## Tech Stack: TypeScript, Puppeteer, Prisma, PostgresQL

This repo is a service that will be running in the cloud to provide data for the eventual web app I'll be building using said data. The data is collected in a few steps using Typescript, [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/), and the [YouTube Data API](https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/docs/search/list).

Firstly, there is the **url-scraper** uses Puppeteer to acquire URLs for all videos from the [Tampa Never Sleeps](https://www.youtube.com/@TampaNeverSleeps) YouTube channel and stores them in a Postgres DB (hosted on [Railway](railway.app)) using Prisma. I am getting URLs from specifically this channel because they provide player and character data nicely formatted in the description of each video (most of the time).

Next, I use these URLs to fetch metadata about relevant videos from the YouTube data API. I am focusing on videos that feature a small set of games for now (UMvC3, Street Fighter 6, GG Strive, more tbd).

Said metadata most importantly includes the description of each video, which I then parse to determine what players were featured in the given video and what character(s) they used (also stored in the Railway-hosted Postgres DB).

# Change Log

- Updated to use the YouTube data API instead of a second Puppeteer scraper to collect video metadata

# Roadmap

- Move from Prisma to DrizzleORM
- Implement functionality for all games on the TNS channel
- Implement functionality for other games on other channels (namely super smash bros.)
